translate ticdc architecture and overview (#11574)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-overview.md

- Replicates real-time data changes to homogeneous systems so as to provide data sources for various scenarios such as monitoring, caching, global indexing, data analysis, and primary-secondary replication between heterogeneous databases.

## Major features

### Key capabilities

- Replicate incremental data from one TiDB cluster to another TiDB cluster with second-level RPO and minute-level RTO.
- Replicate incremental data from a TiDB cluster to a MySQL database (or other MySQL-compatible databases) with low latency.
- Replicate incremental data from a TiDB cluster to a Kafka cluster. The recommended data format includes [Canal-JSON](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json.md) and [Avro](/ticdc/ticdc-avro-protocol.md).
- Replicate tables with the ability to filter databases, tables, DMLs, and DDLs.
- Highly available with no single point of failure. Supports dynamically adding and deleting TiCDC nodes.
- Support cluster management through [Open API](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api.md), including querying task status, and dynamically modifying task configuration and creating or deleting tasks.

### Replication order

- For all DDL or DML statements, TiCDC outputs them **at least once**.

> - When the TiKV or TiCDC cluster encounters failure, TiCDC might send the same DDL/DML statement repeatedly. For duplicated DDL/DML statements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When the TiKV or TiCDC cluster encounters a failure, TiCDC might send the same DDL/DML statement repeatedly. For duplicated DDL/DML statements:
```

        - Kafka sink sends messages repeatedly, but the duplicate messages do not affect the constraints of `Resolved Ts`. For example, if a changefeed is paused and then resumed, msg1, msg2, msg3, msg2, and msg3 will be sent in order. You can filter the duplicated messages from Kafka consumers.

### Replication consistency

- MySQL sink

    - TiCDC enables redo log to ensure eventual consistency of data replication.
    - TiCDC **ensures** that the order of single-row updates is consistent with that in the upstream.
    - TiCDC does **not ensure** that the execution order of downstream transactions is the same as that of upstream transactions.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > Since v6.2, you can use the sink uri parameter [`transaction-atomicity`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-mysql.md#configure-sink-uri-for-mysql-or-tidb) to control whether to split single-table transactions. Splitting single-table transactions can greatly reduce the latency and memory consumption of replicating large transactions.

## TiCDC architecture

> An incremental data replication tool for TiDB, TiCDC is highly available through PD's etcd. The replication process is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an incremental data replication tool for TiDB, TiCDC is highly available through PD's etcd. The replication process is as follows:
```

1. Multiple TiCDC processes pull data changes from TiKV nodes.
2. Data changes pulled from TiKV are sorted and merged internally.
3. Data changes are replicated to multiple downstream systems through multiple replication tasks (changefeeds).

The architecture of TiCDC is shown in the following figure:

![TiCDC architecture](/media/ticdc/cdc-architecture.png)

The components in the preceding architecture diagram are described as follows:

> - TiKV Server: When data changes, TiKV nodes send the changes as change logs (KV change logs) to TiCDC nodes. If TiCDC nodes find the change logs not continuous, they will actively request the TiKV nodes to provide change logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiKV Server: TiKV nodes in a TiDB cluster. When data changes, TiKV nodes send the changes as change logs (KV change logs) to TiCDC nodes. If TiCDC nodes find the change logs not continuous, they will actively request the TiKV nodes to provide change logs.
```

- TiCDC: TiCDC nodes where the TiCDC processes run. Each node runs a TiCDC process. Each process pulls data changes from one or more tables in TiKV nodes, and replicates the changes to the downstream system through the sink component.

> - PD: The scheduling module in the TiDB cluster. This module is in charge of scheduling cluster data and usually consists of three PD nodes. PD provides high availability through the etcd cluster. In the etcd cluster, TiCDC stores metadata, such as node status information and changefeed configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PD: The scheduling module in a TiDB cluster. This module is in charge of scheduling cluster data and usually consists of three PD nodes. PD provides high availability through the etcd cluster. In the etcd cluster, TiCDC stores its metadata, such as node status information and changefeed configurations.
```

> As can be seen from the preceding architecture diagram, TiCDC supports replicating data to TiDB, MySQL, and Kafka databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the preceding architecture diagram, TiCDC supports replicating data to TiDB, MySQL, and Kafka databases.
```
